Hello. Welcome to Real Easy English.
In this podcast we have real conversations
in easy English to help you learn.
I'm Neil.
And I'm Georgie. Remember, if you
want read along to this podcast,
you can find a script on our website
– BBC Learning English dot com.
Hi, Georgie. How are you doing?
I'm fine thanks, Neil. How are you?
I'm very well, thank you.
What's today's conversation about, Neil?
Today, we're going to talk about travel.
We talked about holidays
in another episode,
but today we'll talk about everyday travel
and compare our journeys to work.
So, Neil,
what is your journey to work like?
Well, because we live in London
and it's a big city, it's quite long.
But I get a bus to a tube stop.
The tube is the underground train.
And then I get the tube
to near the BBC and then I walk.
Nice. I walk to work.
I don't like using the tube,
the underground train,
because there's so many people on it.
I prefer to get some fresh air
in the morning.
Ah, you walk to work!
That's interesting in London.
— Mm-hm.
— Tell me about your walk to work.
Well, my walk starts with walking along
some streets, towards a park,
and then I walk across a park and then
I walk through some more streets,
because there is a little bit of time
between the park and the office
and then I arrive at the office.
Very nice.
So you don't like public transport?
Mm, I use it sometimes
when there's an emergency,
like if it's raining
or if I don't have time.
But, if I have time,
I like to walk to work.
And how long does your journey take?
My journey takes me one hour if I walk
and 30 minutes if I take the tube.
— That's pretty good for London.
— What about you?
My journey takes at least an hour,
sometimes more.
And Neil, you have to get a bus
and a train. What's your journey like?
Well, it can be good, but sometimes
there's traffic jams on the roads
and so the bus can take a long time.
But once I get onto the tube,
it's usually OK as I travel across London.
Ooh, Neil, can you explain
what we mean by traffic jam?
Yeah, so a 'traffic jam' is when there are
too many cars and buses on the road
and so the traffic can't move very quickly
or can't move at all.
Oh, yeah, traffic jams are so rubbish.
Are there times of the day
when there are more traffic jams?
Yes, so during rush hour.
'Rush hour' is when most people
are going to work so the roads are busier.
And also, if it's the 'school run',
school run time,
so lots of people on the roads,
taking their kids to school,
then the bus journey takes a long time.
OK. So, that's in the morning
and in the afternoons?
Yeah. That's right.
Well, Georgie, your journey to work sounds
nicer than mine, probably more relaxing.
Yes. Not when it's raining, though!
Let's recap the words
we learned during the conversation.
We had 'towards' —
'travelling in the direction of'.
'Across' —
'travelling from one side to the other'.
'Rush hour' — 'a time when a lot of people
are moving around the city,
'usually for work or school'.
And an expression for something I hate —
'traffic jam',
which we use to talk about
'a big delay when you're driving'.
Thanks for listening to Real Easy
English. Visit our website for
more activities and courses to help you with
your English – BBC Learning English dot com.
Next time, we'll talk about the news.
See you then. Bye!
Godbye!